i don't know if there's god or not
in the way that we think of a bearded
god up in heaven
i think there's a part of god in each
one of us and when i say there's a
moment of grace
i think it's when we really listen to us
each other like you and i are doing
right now
that's what i love about this show about
you it's not a show
this is a connection that you make with
people and that you've made a conscious
decision
that's god
you're creating these moments of grace
because you want to illuminate more than
someone's career
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is one of the most
talented and celebrated actresses of all
time she's been nominated for a tony
award and several times for the golden
globes including two wins she's been
nominated for an oscar on three separate
occasions including one win and she's
not only won multiple emmys but she's
been nominated an unbelievable 14 times
and only twice for the same show
according to imdb across all of the
different award shows she's been
nominated a staggering 89 times and won
an unimaginable 36 times that's a win
rate of over 40 percent assuming there
are five people nominated each time
giving them all a 20 chance history has
proven that she's more than twice as
likely as the next nominee to actually
win
that is completely mind-blowing given
the longevity of her career
and the fact that she's been in some of
the highest grossing and most iconic
films and tv shows ever produced
including misery fried green tomatoes
titanic primary colors water boy
american horror story and countless
others and to top it all off she has
earned some of her highest praise for
some of the most substantive
performances of her career in her 70s
after a double mastectomy and surviving
cancer twice
simply put she doesn't just play some of
the most badass women on the planet
she's actually one of them in real life
so please help me in welcoming the star
of richard jewell the national treasure
and national spokesperson for the
lymphatic education and research network
the legendary actress kathy bates
there it is welcome wow
i will say people will wonder why i
didn't uh grab you into like a death
bear hug to show you my appreciation for
you but you're not uh feeling 100 today
so you're protecting me so thank you yes
i have bronchitis but can i just say i'm
so glad i have your introduction on film
because uh in the event that i do die
which will be someday i want them to
play that at my memorial service
i didn't know any of those facts my head
is getting bigger and bigger that's
hilarious looking at the numbers it
really is amazing and for somebody who i
think a lot of people when they're
younger they think 40 is sort of the end
of the game and for you to really have
gotten started at like 42 with your
breakout role and misery is pretty
extraordinary and then to be performing
such amazing work you've already been
nominated for a golden globe for richard
jewell
in your 70s i mean you just keep getting
awards and you keep putting in
performances that deserve those awards
that's what's so incredible how do you
keep your work ethic at such like a
fever pitch
well it's a life force for me it keeps
me alive when i started this business i
was kind of in and out of it
in my head because
um it seemed
self-aggrandizing to me
and today even more so because you know
there's so much
to do in terms of publicity and and
things and
but i finally realized that what we can
do as actors if we're lucky is
um to create empathy i think that's the
most important
um thing not only for artists
but for the world
especially now and to bring people out
of their tribes
and open their eyes
to
other worlds other cultures
and
that's what keeps me going and
i feel lucky that i've been able to
and and you know as an actor i've always
said you don't know
what your work is going to be because
you you have to kind of sail your little
boat out there and then let it go and
you don't know who it's going to touch
or where it's going to go and you have
to have faith that maybe you know you
will touch someone's heart and change
their minds about something
and you got to keep hubris
out of it
you just got to focus on the work and i
always felt that
early on the work speaks for itself
and after that you got to let it go
so that's
that's what keeps me going i i want to
show
the
humanity and characters even though they
may be
people that have done terrible things
um i i want to try and create human
beings because i think we're all complex
we all make mistakes
we all struggle
and
everybody's got a story
do you find that playing some of these
characters and really having to get in
there i mean
embodying them physically thinking about
their motives and all that does that
give you more self-awareness for
yourself in real life
um yes and it's a double-edged sword
really um in 1983
on broadway i worked a lot in new york i
i went there in uh 70 i think 1970 fresh
from school
at smu and um
worked there for many years and i was
lucky to do a play called night mother
that was written by marcia norman and it
won the pulitzer prize that year
and there were it was a two-hander hour
and a half with ann potoniak
and it was about suicide it was about a
young woman who at the beginning of the
play
tells her mom that she's going to commit
suicide and
she
gets her mom ready she puts candy in the
dishes it does a manicure for her mom
and
and her mother of course is
is freaked out and is trying to
talk her out of it
and um
before that
um my dad my dad was born in 1900
so i was very late in life
my sisters are nine and 15 years older
than i am
so they they really had their family and
so i came along
very late in line for them and
i think i struggled with that a little
bit over the years i feel that my mom
gave up so much especially
for me to have a great education
nice clothes
to appear well and nice manners and
taught me all about reading
and so in 1983 my dad was 83 and he had
diabetes and he was facing an amputation
um because of that
and in my
um
naivete i was like
you know come on dad you know you've
still got a life a lot of life left in
you you know it's going to be great and
he turned to me and he said you know how
i feel you're doing that play up there
you know he had tried to commit suicide
and my mom found him and revived him he
never forgave her for that
so i approached that play
with a kind of tragic feeling for my dad
and i learned that
um
actually the people that are most at
risk are the people who will go to their
psychiatrist they've been seeing
somebody for help
perhaps
and the day they walk in and they say
thank you so much i feel so great
i i'm actually going to go get my hair
done tomorrow and i feel like my whole
life has changed and then bam they're
gone
so i had to really switch into that gear
it took a while and then
when we were on broadway
um
it's
doing those lines every night uh was
like a mantra
so it it gets into your brain chemistry
and i started seeing weird things like
ann had
i didn't know she had on shoes
night shoes like my mom wears
daniel green i thought gosh i've never
seen those before and she pulls down the
attic
and it said made in memphis tennessee
which is my home and i thought whoa
somebody's gaslighting me so i really
got into a bad space and i had to stop
and it was um
either jessie cates is going to live or
kathy bates is going to live
you know and i had to step out of the
show for a performance or two
and i realized that
when you do something because you love
it
it's being an amateur because it comes
from the latin
amo
you do it because you love it
and if you're a professional you have to
do it regardless
of whether you love it or whether you
feel like it that night
the trick is
to keep both
because if
you don't love it
then
it's empty
and
as someone said to me back in those days
you need a head like a bullet in a heart
like a baby
yeah so
that's what kept me going um
my parents came to see the play when it
was out in los angeles here
but my dad couldn't hear it
and uh
you couldn't see it
you know
and he's he said um he used to call me
cat
everybody in my family does because i i
land on my feet i don't know i'm so
lucky
i'm telling you and i've seriously
landed on my feet with the cancer
but um he said i'm not going to call you
cat anymore i'm going to call you typer
wow
and so at least i feel that
they got to understand that what they
did really
really meant a lot you know
but i don't think i've thanked my mom
adequately
i thank my dad with the oscar speech i
didn't thank my mom and i didn't thank
my husband
i was with daniel day lewis i said we
were just off stage i said oh my god i
didn't thank my husband and
and he said well let's go back out there
and i was like no no i know we can't go
out there we can't go out there so um
so i you know in a silly way it's not
silly i guess um
in a way one reason i want to win
another oscar so i can thank my mom
so
man one i completely understand the
power and influence that a mother can
have what was it specifically that
she gave you that has served you so well
that that's like something that you know
you strive for such a monumental
achievement partly to acknowledge that
words
um from a very young age um
i can remember her reading to me
and she had a wonderful voice it was a
low voice
and to me she smelled like lin uh
gingerbread
and um
she loved reading
um
her sister my aunt lee
worked for a bookstore uh
first in tennessee and then out in
california
and she would get these advanced copies
from the publisher
so she would wrap them all up
individually so we'd have more things to
unwrap at christmas
and so i remember on christmas we would
just grab our books everybody you know
my father would get booked about
pyramids and you know i would get a book
about horses and stuff like that and
we'd all go after christmas you know a
celebration we'd all go to our bedrooms
you know and we would be like reading
and reading and reading
so that's what my mom gave to me was
that was that joy and um
her
bearing
you know we didn't have a lot of money
but
it was very important to her that we
knew how to behave she would keep three
um books by her bed the bible
emily post and shakespeare
so with the emily post you want to make
sure we knew the right silverware
you know and how to write thank you
notes
in fact
i remember going to the uh premiere of
misery with my mom and we were leaving
the party she and she turned to the guy
ralph pipes i never forgot his name who
was our bodyguard oh my god had a
bodyguard that night
and she said who do i write a thank you
note to
you know
and so she was always about being proper
if you can only buy one thing buy the
best you can afford
you know if you only buy one dress then
buy the best you can afford
and um so those are some of the things
that i remember about my mom and uh or
if i did something that she she didn't
like she said oh kathy that's common
[Laughter]
you know she said you ought to be able
to walk with paupers and
kings that's amazing i love that
going back to
your dad and what he struggled with and
and the idea which has to be hard for a
daughter to bear that
knowing that your father's upset with
your mother for saving him
and then what you've gone through with
cancer you're such a fighter and you've
made fighting and fighting in the name
of other people such a huge part of your
life when you could
just sit back and be famous and
yeah i mean your career is it really is
a legendary career and yet
you're more active on that side than
ever and you're being a spokesperson
um
when you think about
fighting or or not fighting
like how do you feel about that is is
part of how hard you fight a reaction to
your dad not
well i think
there have been moments
um in my life i've suffered from
depression
and um
thankfully in the last few years i've
gotten help for that
and i wish my dad had i wish that the
medications
uh that have helped me had been
available for him
because i think he
um
suffered from depression
and also i grew up with them when they
were old
and
so it was different and when i talked to
my sisters they have a very different
dad than i do
he was he would sit in his chair and say
i don't understand why in life you you
gather all this information you learn
all these things and then you die and
it's gone
you know and there was no way to help
that that point of view our audience
happens to have a lot of people who have
struggled with either depression or
anxiety um so for them to hear about
that kind of stuff is is super super
powerful
and one thing that i find so incredible
in your story is so i find that people
react in one of two ways so if you come
from a family where depression runs and
you've seen that modeled a lot of people
they just lean into it whether they mean
to or not right so you know you are who
you are as you say the world has been
mapped for you uh you saw your father go
through it and so you go through it the
same way then there are other people who
break that cycle
and you definitely fall into that camp
and one thing i'd love to hear you talk
about is i know when you were first
diagnosed with
breast cancer and you had the surgeries
and you had the lymph nodes removed that
it sent you into
i think multiple years worth of just
anger i had um
god i i had um had had a relationship
that was the worst relationship i'd ever
allowed myself to stay in for eight
years and this guy had lymphedema in his
arm he had had mela uh melanoma i think
and he survived he had stage four stage
five because of this experimental
uh treatment but he had to go back and
get all these different injections and
by then he just had it with the doctors
he would never go
and lymphedema when you remove the lymph
nodes it your the lymph fluid backs up
in the affected limb
and um
he never went to the doctors
it's progressive it's incurable so his
arm was like wood
and the lymph fluid would sometimes come
out
and it made him very angry and bitter
and he was a difficult man to get along
with but he reminded me of my father
and i thought very arrogantly i can
change this i can make it better and in
some unconscious way i can fix my father
you know and it was it was just not a
good relationship and then when i
and my mother had had lymphedema when i
didn't know what it was she'd had a
radical
so the first thing i did when i went to
my surgeons like i told them three times
dude you know i don't want to get this
please if the sentinel node's clear get
out because for me and i told them i
said i i can't believe i was telling my
doctors about you know this relation
this love relationship that had gone bad
i just didn't want to look down and see
his arm
for the rest of my life
and be reminded of all of that
and
so
when i went for my first checkup
i was there with my best friend billy
and my niece and um
and um
i said how many did you take and he said
i took 19 from this side and three and i
went
i have never gone crazy like that in my
life i just flipped out
and people were coming in i was
screaming and crying and i could hear
him say i cured you of cancer i cured
you of cancer
and trying to say you know you're gonna
be okay
you're you're gonna be okay
and i just couldn't hear anything and i
had
it was my first checkup so i had the
drains in for some reason they do they
they put something in a drain in
um but the
it's like it's almost like a corner and
they put this really strong stitch
and then you have the grenades they call
them that will do the draining and
everything it must have had some kind of
a nerve so i was really in a lot of pain
it was the middle of july and i they
give you these pillows to hold against
you so you know
you won't move a lot of stuff around i
ran out of the building in l.a right
across from the beverly center and i
didn't know where i was going and i was
just
and finally i thought you know
you you're gonna
rip this loose you're in the middle of
recovering you've got to calm down and
get home
and i was so upset and so bitter for
such a long time and my show had been
canceled before then and i thought this
is it i'm done
it's over
and um
there was a day when it was all the
grains were out i was out i had this
lanai and i had these two huge plate
glass windows and
i literally was sighing and i thought oh
thank god and wham this little finch
slammed into the window and fell down
onto the bricks dead and i thought
it's always something
and so i opened the
the doors and i went out and i picked
him up and i held him in my hands and
went over and sat down and i he was
still warm and his eye the ribbons
around his eyes were all screwed up and
his one claw was up here and one was
down here and
you know he was he was on his back and
i just prayed and sometimes there's
moments like
there's a moment of hubris
you know
um
and
you think you can heal
something and then you think oh that's
possibleness so your mind's going all
these different places
and i was holding this little bird and
all of a sudden he flipped over in my
hand
and
i could feel his little claws in my palm
and his wings were okay and his big he
was moving his eyes were open and okay
and i thought holy crap and my niece who
as i spoke about her before she's like
francis of assisi but very practical
so she came out and she said oh he needs
some water so she went in and got one of
those little dixie cups and tore it down
so and put water in it we put them on
like a
in a little planter there
so no
cats or pox would get him
and she told me she said now leave him
alone because she knows me
and after a while i went back out of
course i wanted to see and he flew away
and i called linda and i said you'll
never guess you'll never guess he flew
away he flew away and and she said are
you getting the message and i said and i
suddenly thought
i can heal like jesus
and
if i didn't say that to her i just
thought oh my god you know and she's i
said no no what is the message and she
said you thought you were dead but now
you have a second chance at life
and that was the thing that turned me
around
and then went to the doctor and told her
my sad story about my love and
relationship gone bad still very angry
at
at times and
she's czechoslovakian and she's
wonderful healer this woman she said
darling that is all in the past
i have a patient a woman who is 105.
and if you want to know anything about
the stock market you ask margaret
and she said that was the that was a
different life and now you're going to
begin your new life let's have a glass
of champagne
you know so all of that really i mean
i feel like there are these moments
where and i'm sure all of all of us have
these moments of grace
where somebody comes along at just the
right moment
and helps you
you know write yourself and
and
see a light that's at the end of the
tunnel that grows brighter that you can
come out into
and um
so
it's been that's been my spiritual
journey
and
then to be able to take that
with the swollen arms i wasn't able to
wear i still have problems wearing
women's clothes and
but to be able to have the opportunity
then
to meet bill rapisi who was our ceo and
when he told me the um
the figures which i think you and i
talked about
that doctors spend 15 minutes in four
years of medical school on the lymphatic
system and 10 million americans suffer
from this and
the majority are cancer survivors so um
we lobby every year in congress and we
all go to the lincoln memorial and
and we sit and talk afterwards we have
our walk around the reflecting pond and
some people can barely walk because
their legs are swollen and
in their courage and the fact that they
live day by day by day it's disfiguring
it's psychologically damaging
it's progressive it's incurable doctors
don't know what they're doing so
thank you dude for giving me an
opportunity to to talk about this
because
uh we're determined to you know i i
spoke in front of the subcommittee of
appropriations
last spring
rosa delario's fabulous woman from
connecticut representative
and
i got to speak at the american society
of breast surgeons but it's hard to get
them to change their ways and i think
i don't know but i'm guessing that
they don't want to think that something
they've done
can create something that someone else
has to live with
for the rest of their lives and somehow
we've got to get the ego the hubris out
of it
you know
i have to go back to my father too i
remember he was facing a second
amputation which meant and this was
later in life of course and uh i
remember driving him up to the hospital
and
uh for this operation to try to open up
his his veins and get blood to his foot
and then we went to see him the day
afterwards on on that sunday and my mom
was with me and um
pulled the sheet back from his foot and
it looked normal
and my mother turned to me and she said
you did it
and for a second i was really excited
and then i thought it was like greek
theater it was like the greek and i
thought oh no
i've let that
pride
wash through me and it's i don't know
why i guess it's it's crazy to think
like that
and then the next day he unfortunately
passed away but is that i guess the
thing that's
hearing what i'm saying to you is that
um
i want to fix things and
you can't always fix things and you
don't always have the right to fix
things sometimes those moments of grace
just have to come
you can't will them you can't push them
on somebody else
and
i'm learning now i think to try to go
with the flow
to enjoy things um not to worry so much
and just
i know it's cliche to say but
to feel grateful i feel like
as we as we say the governor called you
know there's been a stay of execution
and now i've got these extra years to
live
and i want to enjoy every day of it i'm
so lucky i think we talked about how
i've lost 65 pounds and i was diabetic
for a while
and i thought you know my father died of
it
his mother died of it
my sister's dealing with it and i
thought man i've just got to do
something i don't want to have that be
my future
how did you pull that off
well
by the grace of god
but also um
there is a thing that happens when you
eat
where your brain communicates with your
stomach you probably know about all this
and
maybe 10 15 minutes into your meal
you experience this involuntary sigh
like
like that
and if you take your time and you pay
attention to it
it means
push your plate away
that's the hard part pushing don't hold
on to it you know you got to just push
it away out of arm's reach and i heard
about this and i tried it
and it really works
after like five minutes maybe 10 at the
most you don't want anything on that
plate
and that's what did it for me i mean i
cut out all the sodas the coca-cola
my mother said back in the day it really
had cocaine in it
so they used to say let's go get us a
dope
you know so
coca-cola and bourbon that's mother's
milk to me not at the same time but
uh anyway tell me what do you want to
talk about i'm just gagging no this this
is amazing and so in your stories i hear
some very interesting things so
you're saying how
you learn this thing uh there's this
connection between your stomach and the
brain and you get this exhale and look
for it time it push the plate away but
i'm guessing that you've said that to
countless people who are in your
position struggling and they don't do it
so we don't this isn't a knowledge issue
you've tapped into something
either a desire to live or to help
others
even the moment with the bird so many
people could live that exact same moment
the bird flies away and they were like
oh i guess i was wrong and it was you
know just dazed and cool
that's what it was and they don't make
it a moment right you made it a moment
you've decided to be empowered by these
things and to lose the weight to keep it
off for the first time in 72 years it's
like
you've done all of this and so
i love that you
you're i don't believe in god but i get
what you mean when you say by the grace
of god and i think the humility of that
is very wise but i think there's also a
powerful lesson in
when
people that i know and love
who look like you in ways you can't
imagine
just see themselves almost exactly the
same age as you but they see themselves
as their life is winding down and to see
you making more of your life now to be
taking on the meatiest roles of your
career and killing it
and also speaking up and fighting for
this is [__] incredible
and so like that to me is so inspiring
and i just wonder if you have words
around what was finally the tipping
point that
gave you the courage to continue to step
into that or the
the want of something that you just have
to be around long enough to pull off
like
what is that
well i don't know if there's god or not
in the way that we think of a bearded
god up in heaven
i think there's a part of god in each
one of us and when i say there's a
moment of grace
i think it's when we really listen to us
each other like you and i are doing
right now that's what i love about this
show about you it's not a show
this is a connection that you make with
people and that you've made a conscious
decision
that's god
you're creating these moments of grace
because you want to
illuminate more than someone's career
and
a huge moment of grace came for me 12
years ago when i was in paris making a
film and i don't know if you met my
friend philippe bainer and he was my
driver and assistant and everything and
we became very close friends
and it's very rare i think late in life
to let someone in your life in a very
intimate way
and trust them and
we've both been each other's angels
and
that friendship
i mean you if you if you go back and you
look i think when i was doing
um
that first film was sheree and i went
back and did uh the woody allen
and i was at my lowest point i i was
like 240 pounds
there's a online you can find a brief
video of me and philippe's in the
background
i look like an old woman
my whole attitude is not just being
heavy
it's just my hair i didn't care anymore
and i was ending that bad relationship
where i had really given up and it was
devastating i
i still get ptsd
i mean it's a two-way street i
participated
but the friendship with philippe he's
opened my eyes to the world and i feel
so grateful to have that in my life that
was all part of the transformation for
me give me some of the secret sauce so
many people get hurt they go through a
bad relationship but part of them closes
down and it never opens up again and to
see you
be saying i have ptsd over this past
relationship i fully accept my
responsibility in it but it was that
[__] hard
and to
come out and still open yourself i've
always said the most beautiful thing
about love is knowing this person might
kick the [__] out of me and then going
back again with the same innocence to
somebody new and to give them a from the
ground up fresh start and not carry that
baggage in
i don't know that many people can do
that
what was it is there things you guys
discovered together that he said to you
how did it help you get to that place
where you could be open again
well he didn't proselytize he just
treated me
differently and in fact the
the relationship that was the bad one
and then starting to be friends with
philippe um we we i was actually on the
road in my rv uh
and
i was sitting outside talking to
philippe he was in france and my friend
came to me the guy that was that i was
in this relationship with and i guess he
overheard me talking to philippe he said
you don't talk to me like that
and i thought
well
you don't talk to me like he's talking
to me with respect
and kindness and honesty okay let me
tell you the french are really [__]
blunt
totally
i mean they just i mean he's like
sometimes i'm like dude just back off
you know but
it's that it's also linda in my life
uh the support
um my moods go up and down like crazy or
cycle and they know
you know when i just got to go to ground
i've had to train myself i think along
with these wonderful supportive
relationships and
yes it's been hard
um
but i've i've got to get through it
i've got to take a snapshot of the
really great moments
and carry those with me through the
really bad ones
and the trick is
taking your blinders off and remembering
to look at those photos
and like i said sometimes i just put the
music on and i look back at all the
photos and how great all of this was and
it changes the brain
and it changes the wiring
and i try to breathe breathing changes
the wiring
but it's conscious
you have to just
slow down
you have to cut out all the noise
you have to respect yourself
you know i i would be sitting on the
sofa and say oh my god
i really want to go make popcorn or i
really want to have this and that and
then i really have to just say to myself
and i hate the word willpower
it's pejorative and it's just it people
have been hitting
over the head oh well you didn't have
enough willpower you just couldn't do it
my word is determination
because it's your choice
it's my choice
do i want to go upstairs and fit in
these fabulous armani trousers
or do
i want to have
that dessert you got to take care of
yourself i mean
there's no way to tell people and wish i
wish we could give them that message
i wish i had learned it 40 years ago
you know i was on the dr phil show and
they had all this retrospect and i was
like oh please don't show those photos
of this woman you know and these tent
dresses and stuff you know i just i wish
i hadn't done that there's so many
things i wish i hadn't done and you
can't go back you can't change it you
can't fix it you know can i give you an
outsider's point of view that i hope
changes the way you see a retrospective
kathy you've given us all a gift and
being able to watch you
go up go down and always push forward
and really i mean looking back
doing the research seeing the different
interviews seeing your sizes change your
haircut you
clearly caring you not caring
and yet here you are like still [__]
killing it in your chosen craft playing
at the absolute highest level there
there is no one at any age that is
playing the game better than you
and the oh god you have a quote you said
someone once told you that you don't
have to be
perfect to be
memorable interesting extraordinary
remarkable melissa telling her kids uh
melissa mccarthy say that quote i
thought i think she said you don't have
to be perfect to be
remarkable ah remarkable that was it you
don't have to be perfect to be
remarkable that's what she was telling
her children god damn kathy bates you
don't have to be perfect to be
remarkable and homegirl you are [__]
remarkable well so i'm telling you part
like for us the rest of the world like
you have chosen to live in public that's
not an easy route to take
you've done it so [__] well and to be
able to look at you and and be blown
away to the point where sometimes i
think my brains will leak out of my ears
from watching you perform because it is
so [__] good and to be like hey and
yet through all of this she's had the
same ups and downs as anybody else it it
is so amazing so that is i want you to
see that retrospective the way other
people see it because it's breathtaking
thank you i just you know tom i just
have a it's great i'm so glad and it's
great i'm gonna play this over i'm sure
uh especially that intro you know um but
i i always have this thing in my mind
about hubris you know it's just um
it's great to receive the accolade but i
remember working with this amazing south
african playwright ethel fugard and he
was so instrumental
in changing things in his country and
contributing to
to fighting apartheid i did just play
the road to mecca
what an amazing play can i just say
people should read that play about an
artist at the end of her life and how
she was maligned and um we were walking
at and he
suddenly got in this huge article in
time magazine
so we're walking out and i see this and
he says here take it out of my way he
said i'm about a board and two trestles
he says that's what i do and you just
don't want that to begin to be the road
that then you start going down
that kind of
accolade can be like somebody's putting
what is it um
alan watts said you don't want to go
up the signpost you want to go down the
road
that's really you know
and i mean there's so many wonderful
things i think emerson has something
somebody sent me about
it's not about going down the path it's
about
going where there's no path and leaving
a trail for other people
and i think that was ralph waldo emerson
i keep quotes like that that's the other
thing i i i love words and i keep quotes
like that because i wanna
uh they're inspiring to me uh my friend
jennifer loves love love's books and she
restores old books and so
that's the kind of relationship we have
we talk about books and oh my god look
at this quote and we're sending it
uh the way people put into words what i
can't put into words when you're asking
me about how do you
help somebody else you know how do you
how do you give what what you what you
want to somebody else and like i said
you just
you have to wait for the bird to come
very fair
so hubris clearly is something that you
avoid talk to me about humility i've
heard you talk about it quite eloquently
and then i'd love to hear more about
your notion of keeping the beginner's
mind
i remember years ago
working with shelly duvall and um it was
shortly after misery and we were doing
one of her fairy tales
and
i was asking her about the character she
said well i don't have to direct you you
won an academy award and i said yeah but
for that part
you know this you you start from scratch
and
yes you you've learned how to play the
piano you're
you're not just doing your five finger
exercises you've gotten
you know you've gotten your craft under
your belt but it's still a new piece of
music
and
the people that i really admire like
dustin hoffman sam rockwell
you he's studying his script we were on
the plane coming back and he's got two
different scripts
so
that kind of commitment and that kind of
respect
i remember
getting to meet zoe caldwell fantastic
actress and a close friend of jessica
tandy's
we were at a party and i was literally
sitting at her knee
a phenomenal stage actress phenomenal
and there was a young writer sitting
next to him and he was going on and on
about him she said
i'm a first chair violinist
you wrote the music
so i never forgot that
that kind of respect
and um
okay i don't know if you're going to use
this do we have time please okay right
all right um
was a singing waitress in the catskills
as every good story starts okay so i'll
let that go by although we there was a
strip club nearby
um
and it was called fragile fills and we
would go there sometimes at night i
remember some girl coming she said oh
are you here to strip and i said no i'm
here to drink you know it's like thanks
anyway for the compliment you know so um
wait a minute where was i i was singing
waitress in the catskills
[__] i oh okay so bob tartaglia was our
piano player what a character so he
tells us this story true story
apparently according to bob
about this famous conductor who came
over from europe
to conduct in the philharmonic in los
angeles and this guy talked about hubris
this guy was so full of himself he
treated everybody in the orchestra like
[__]
disrespectful yelling at people and so
there came a special concert for the
patrons
one afternoon or evening i don't know uh
and
the orchestra is out there on stage
and this [__] comes out
to tumultuous applause
they're all you know he's all
puffed up
and he turns around and he gives the
downbeat to the orchestra and nothing
happens
and that was the response in the
audience
like oh
and he just he was livid
and he gave the downbeat again and
nothing happened
and finally the first year violinist
stood up and said that's just to show
you that no [__] music comes out of
that baton of yours
right
we're all in the orchestra baby
that's why i always thank the crew
i'd be dancing around in an empty
parking lot in my underwear just
spouting lines without
everybody even marketing people pr
people everybody everybody makes the
movie and gets it out so that people can
see
what you really care about
what you want to say and it's such an
honor to be able to have that particular
symphony especially this one that we've
been working on with richard jill
because you want to change something
that's been
a travesty in someone's life and to have
the honor at my age to play a real woman
and
after 23 years
see her
swanning up and down that red carpet
with popcorn
at last that her son's name is give
people a little bit of backstory on what
the richard jewell story is so in 1996
there was the bombing at the olympics
richard jewell
was even from the age of nine
super vigilant and super caring about
people and he would run around the
church make sure everybody had their
programs this was at nine years old
he wanted to be a policeman in the worst
way
he was his mother's only child she had
had miscarriages so she they were
especially close
his real dad dropped out of the picture
early
his stepdad was there for a few years he
dropped out
so richard's dreams were always on kind
of a slippery slope
and
i'll tell you this couple of stories
about him
so
he had a car which he kept wrecking and
that's why he ended his days at the
haversham county sheriff's department
but he they called it the death mobile
because he would have everything he
needed he'd have a 130 pound battering
ram on the back seat of the car
every kind of thing that you needed for
safety and in his glove compartment he
had beanie babies
for the kids
that he'd find in accidents
so that he could give those to him
to comfort them
the other story about richard that i
want to tell you is that
one night they had to go and try and get
a drug dealer out of his house and in
the front yard were these vicious dogs
and they couldn't get in
so they gave him when they went home
so six months later they went back night
time and richard said let me go in first
and they were like okay
good luck dude and so he went in
and they didn't hear anything
after a few minutes they went in and
there was richard middle of the night
with these vicious dogs licking his
hands and he was feeding them hot dogs
and one of the one of his colleagues
said
gosh
was that the secret should we just like
have fed them or something
and richard in a very humble way said no
you know i've just been
stopping by every couple of weeks or so
and
getting to know him and
smart
and it's that vigilance that then
enabled him
at the olympics he was security guard at
the sound and light tower and um
this particular night he had the runs
and
he didn't feel like being there but he
he made himself go and then he finally
had to run up and and use the restroom
and he came back
and there were these benches around the
the tower that he'd put so that the cops
could come and rest their feet and have
cokes and water and even for pregnant
women and stuff
and he came back and
he noticed this alice back which is a
big military pack underneath he he
noticed everything
and in kind of a weird way because and
he was always made fun of it he was like
oh okay richard right you know
and
he had seen some teenagers there
messing around with uh
with beer cans and stuff and he chased
them off but he sees this alice pack
and he says to one of the gbi that are
there he said i don't like the way this
looks they were like richard he's and
this paul paul walter hauser plays
richard and he ad-libbed this slime and
he said i'd rather be crazy than wrong
so in the park richard finally gets the
bomb guys to come over and take a look
at it and it's the biggest [__] it's
three pipe bombs in there
loaded with shrapnel
so they started getting people back
hundreds of people back back back back
back
and time was running out i think at like
the bomb goes off
and
one woman unfortunately alice hawthorne
was killed she was there with her
daughter fallon who was also injured 100
people were injured horribly
the bomb was so powerful that it went
500 yards they found shrapnel on the
on-ramp of the i-75
and what was interesting a moment of
grace
these kids who had been there almost
took the alice pack and when he had
chased them off earlier
they hid it by mistake
so
the blast
instead of going out went up
so it didn't
damage people in the way that this guy
who they six years later was eric
rudolph
so
then they learned that richard was the
one that spotted the bag and he was a
huge hero and everybody was talking man
he had to cnn katie kirk all these
people you're a hero you saved all these
people's lives he was this simple guy
and he was like it's mom mom what's
happening and
then three days later
um a reporter from the uh atlanta
journal constitution
uh got wind through a tip
that they were looking at him as the
suspect
so she wanted to break the story because
it was atlanta it was their olympics
and so they said okay we're going to
break it
from then on
88 days
he was the suspect the press were all
saying horrible things about him
in the press and
they just didn't know what to do and and
so the film is about that
paul plays richard i play his mom bobby
who's still alive
and i got to meet with her
she made me a pound cake
and what was it like working with clint
eastwood that had to be pretty amazing i
was terrified
absolutely terrified the first night i
had a huge scene was that god is not in
the movie
um
because it impedes the progress you know
but also i was just talking about you
said i'm still killing it
okay let me disabuse you of that
because i had a crisis that night i
really did um
it was one of the most difficult scenes
and it was the first up scene i had to
do this it's
in this business it's always about
location right
if if they've got to do the location at
that time you've got to do the scene
regardless of where it is
i didn't know this woman yet i didn't
walk around in her moccasins yet as my
mother would say and i didn't know this
woman i didn't i didn't feel like i had
her in me and i had to do this scene and
i was i
i i had a breakdown i really did i
and every time i'd look over it it's
like clint's name got bigger and bigger
on his director's chair and for some
reason hillary swank was in my head pow
pow pow you know knocking people out on
the carpet and i really thought
girl you you've lost it
you don't got it anymore you can't play
at this level anymore
you're done
and
i was really really it took me
you know i thank god i came back to la
and i was able to work on something else
and i
kind of got my breath again and
went back and i thought okay you know
it's time for the next round you know i
gotta get in there like hillary and
thank god i was able to and he was so
great that night
he was so great
and um
i was in the car and his hands were on
the uh the side of the you know the
window i can these beautiful old hands
he's 89
soft voice
talking to me
you know talking it through and
and i just
at one point i was just in tears i said
i i don't want to fail you
i don't want to fail you i want this to
be great i wanted to be
you know and and i told him i i said
it's been so long since i've done this
you know i've done a lot of television
and i was doing all the stuff for
lymphedema and i said i just feel like
i've been away i've been out of the
saddle too long
you know and i just thought oh my god i
can't play with the big boys anymore
so
but it's my passion it is for all of us
actors especially this crew sam and john
and olivia and you know all of them niko
who plays duchess who's amazing and and
ian and
and uh
it's it's and
it's just been an amazing group to be a
part of i've learned so much from them
for me watching the younger ones come up
the really good ones who are disciplined
who really care
and learning how they work and it the
craft is getting more and more subtle so
the craft itself really excites me
and when it's done well um
i
i jump off the sofa
you know just really when it all comes
together
it just makes me it just thrills me
and um if there comes a day when i can't
do it anymore
at least i'll be able to watch them do
it you know well i will say that that
day is definitely nowhere near you've
already been nominated for a golden
globe for your performance in richard
jewell so that certainly says a lot oh
lord
i think they're going to be a lot of
different opinions about it
i want people to see it it's relevant
the fbi got it wrong
the media got it wrong
in this case
and it's not spin here that i'm about to
say
it's true
we need the truth in the media now more
than ever it's like washington post
democracy dies in darkness
we need truth in government
and
i hope people don't think we're painting
this with too broad a brush
it's their story richard and bobby
and what they went through
at the hands of people who
look the fbi had waco they had ruby
ridge they had the federal building they
had world raid
uh world trade center the first truck
bombing
and they had a lot of pressure
uh the newspapers had a lot of pressure
they were starting to go out of business
cnn was starting to rise up
everything that we have now was just
beginning
and it's gotten more and more and more
and more uh rapid around the world
and
so now is a good time for this
cautionary tale
for people to pay attention and say you
know
it's what is big daddy says in uh cattle
in the hudson tin roof mendacity
liars and lying
and i think it's uh
important to
pay attention that there's a lot of
different angles to this story and i
hope people will see it make up their
own minds i have no doubt they will
i have one final question for you
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
you're trapped in me
i just uh
i don't know
i just
people
i don't have i can't say that i don't
i don't know
i mean i hope i've done some good i hope
i've entertained some people i hope i've
um
but you know i
i'm not in control of that
i know it's it's your show and and i'm
glad you invited me because you think i
do have some kind of impact but
um
i think that's going up the signpost and
not down the road
all right fair enough
well kathy thank you so much for coming
on the show i loved it was absolutely
extraordinary in what you've done with
your career what you're doing for
lymphedema all of it is is just
breathtaking it's somebody that's truly
committed to what they believe in and
they're going after it and you're so
extraordinary at your craft and the fact
that you put so much time and attention
into that so that we can connect with
something and empathize with somebody
that we might not otherwise be able to
is extraordinary so thank you for all of
that that you've got your bro well thank
you
guys if you haven't already watched
every single movie and tv show that
she's ever done i highly encourage that
you do it and then once you finish that
be sure to come back here and subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
if you always do good work
from your standards
whether you're in a project that fails
or
succeeds you can live with that but if
you're doing things on other people's
criteria standards and you fail you feel
terrible